
I have had a number of enquiries about the hyper-help software mentioned
in c.s.a recently. There follows a brief description which I knocked up to
answer these queries.

As you can see from my email address, I am using a public access system to
talk to usenet. This has 3 problems:

   1. The loadings are rather high as the service is free.
   2. I don't know the first thing about Unix so I probably don't get
      the most out of mail/news.
   3. I have to communicate with it at 2400baud via an SM2400 modem and
      this means I have serious handshaking & phonebill problems.

If any of the above lead to problems contacting me, please use GPO at the
address below (if anybody has any suggestions for tackling any of the
above problems, I would be grateful for advice :-).

If you would like a copy of the PD version of the software (details below)
send a blank, formatted disc and SAE and I will send one when it is ready
(one day... :-). I do not propose to email the code anywhere at the moment
for the reasons outlined above.

Hope this is what you're all looking for. If not, suggestions received in
the best of spirits.

  Merlyn Kline
  (Address redacted)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

I am just finishing up writing a program for hyper-help which is very
similar to that provided with windows 3. It is mainly intended for use as
an interactive book in a teaching environment but would also be very
appropriate for an on-line manual (it is intended that future versions
will support direct communication with applications [perhaps via Impulse]
as per windows help).

The software displays pages of text with pictures embedded in it. The
pictures may be treated as words (cf Impression II embedded frames) or may
be positioned against the left/right margins or centred. Text is wrapped
around the pictures where appropriate. The text may be in any available
font and may contain cross-references to any point in the text. These
cross-references may be followed by clicking with the mouse. A selection
of icons allows you to browse through the available topics and to retrace
your path (useful after cross-referencing). It is also possible to place
named bookmarks and to search for index points or for any specified text.
I have not included the annotation feature with the windows version but
may do on a future release.

The documents are reformatted automatically when the window changes size
so there is only need for a vertical scroll bar. When printing, the
documents are automatically formatted according to the size of paper
reported by the printer driver.

Documents are created by providing a text file containing special commands
enclosed in curly brackets. This may refer to pictures in the form of
sprite or draw files (in the current version - other formats are planned
for, eg Ace films). The commands control the formmatting of the text when
it is displayed. They include the following:

FONT:number,name,size
 Sets up font references in a similar way to Draw text areas.

INDEX:tag
 Sets up and index point in the text for cross-referencing.

TOPIC:topic name
 Starts a new topic. Each topic is one 'window full.'

F:number
 Selects font (defined by FONT) for following text.

PICTURE:pos,filename
 Inserts picture. pos indicates left/right/centre/in-line.

B:button name
 Puts 'button name' on a 3D plinth - on-line manual feature.

>:number
 Tabs to specified position in mm and sets left margin indent.

REF:word,indextag
 Underlines 'word' and allows cross-reference to indextag

RULE:type
 Draws a rule-off across the page. Types include double, broken.

This software will probably be available in three forms:

The basic PD version will display files and that will be all. You will be
able to distribute this free for no gain etc as per most PD.

The display version will be similar to the PD version but will allow
printing, saving (eg bookmarks, annotations if implemented), etc. This
will be available for a small charge (perhaps #10.00).

The full version will also compile documents from files as described
above. This will be available for a slightly higher price again (perhaps
#50.00).

Initial supplier will be:

  dec_DATA
  60 Danes Rd
  Exeter
  EX4 4LS
  Voice: +44 392 221702

They have an electronic catalogue - see their ads in Acorn press. Their
catalogue will probably have the PD version of this software on it fairly
soon. The PD version will hopefully spread in the usual way; I am not sure
if it is appropriate to post this to Newcastle.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
